A nightly build (jar file and Javadoc) is available from our CI Server Jenkins_.

You can also clone the source and build/install repetita following the next instructions.

First, clone the repository on your system, using: ::

  $ git clone https://github.com/stefanovis/repetita.git

Enter the ``repetita`` folder created inside your current directory. ::

  $ cd repetita 

Next, compile the source code. ::

  $ ./compile

The compilation command downloads the code dependencies and compiles the source files. Under the hood, the command runs sbt_: It will therefore preventively check for sbt to be installed on your machine. If not, it will ask you to install it.

Also, to run LP/MIP based solvers, you'll have to install gurobi Gurobi_. After installation, you'll also have to copy gurobi.jar inside lib/ in the repetita directory. Please, **install Gurobi before compiling**; otherwise, the ./compile script will return a compilation error and will require you to perform those steps.

If the compilation is successful, you can already try repetita. 
For example, the following command uses the DEFO_ algorithm to optimize the Abilene topology ::

 $ ./repetita -graph data/2016TopologyZooUCL_inverseCapacity/Abilene.graph -demands data/2016TopologyZooUCL_inverseCapacity/Abilene.0000.demands -solver defoCP -t 10 -scenario SingleSolverRun

For more information on how to use repetita, please type :: 

  $ ./repetita -h


.. _Jenkins : http://jenkins2.info.ucl.ac.be/job/repetita/
.. _`sbt` : http://www.scala-sbt.org/
.. _Gurobi : https://www.gurobi.com
.. _DEFO : http://sites.uclouvain.be/defo/